## Customization

The java2python compiler defers a significant amount of its processing to
handlers defined within configuration files.  These configuration files,
directories, and modules are supplied to the `j2py` script on the command
line. See the [usage][] page for instructions on specifying additional configs.

The default configuration module is `java2python.config.default`.  Refer to [the source
of that module][1] for its values and additional descriptions.

### Usage

To change the behavior of some or all of the config items, create a Python
file, define the items you want, and specify that file when invoking `j2py`.

For example, if you would like to change the comment prefix to `##`, you might
do this:

    $ echo "indentPrefix = '##'" >> myconfig.py

Then run the script:

    $ j2py SomeJavaSource.java -c myconfig.py 

The config files are Python modules, so you can use the full power of Python
when writing your configurations.

### A Note About Some of the Names:  Prologue, Base, Head, and Epilogue

When a config point has `Prologue` in its name, it means that the item will be
responsible for generating code before the output.  For example, method
prologue handlers generate decorators, while module prologue handlers generate
the shebang line.

When a config point has `Base` in the name, it means that the item will be
responsible for generating the base classes of a class, enum, or interface.


A config point with `Head` in the name means that the item will be responsible
for generating code for the section between the declaration and the body of the
item.  For example:

    class X(object):
        """ this is a comment generated by classHeadHandlers """

Finally, when a config point contains `Epilogue`, it means that the item will
be responsible for generating code after the body of the item.  The only
recognized epilogue config point is `moduleEpilogueHandlers`, which generates a
main script stanza if necessary.



### Customization Points

#### <a name="indentPrefix"></a>indentPrefix
#### <a name="commentPrefix"></a>commentPrefix
#### <a name="expressionVariableNamingHandler"></a>expressionVariableNamingHandler

#### <a name="modulePrologueHandlers"></a>modulePrologueHandlers
#### <a name="moduleEpilogueHandlers"></a>moduleEpilogueHandlers
#### <a name="moduleOutputHandlers"></a>moduleOutputHandlers
#### <a name="modulePackageDeclarationHandler"></a>modulePackageDeclarationHandler
#### <a name="moduleImportDeclarationHandler"></a>moduleImportDeclarationHandler
#### <a name="moduleOutputSubs"></a>moduleOutputSubs


#### <a name="classHeadHandlers"></a>classHeadHandlers
#### <a name="classBaseHandlers"></a>classBaseHandlers
#### <a name="classPostWalkHandlers"></a>classPostWalkHandlers

#### <a name="interfaceBaseHandlers"></a>interfaceBaseHandlers
#### <a name="interfaceHeadHandlers"></a>interfaceHeadHandlers

#### <a name="enumHeadHandlers"></a>enumHeadHandlers
#### <a name="enumValueHandler"></a>enumValueHandler


#### <a name="methodParamHandlers"></a>methodParamHandlers
#### <a name="methodLockFunctionName"></a>methodLockFunctionName
#### <a name="methodHeadHandlers"></a>methodHeadHandlers
#### <a name="methodPrologueHandlers"></a>methodPrologueHandlers

#### <a name="astTransforms"></a>astTransforms
#### <a name="typeSubs"></a>typeSubs


[usage]: https://github.com/natural/java2python/tree/master/doc/usage.md
[1]: https://github.com/natural/java2python/blob/master/java2python/config/default.py
